all right take it away hey everybody
welcome to the community call who we got
on the line here we've got me and Terry
and Dan shield and Jim picked whoo all
right sweet um so I don't really have
much of an agenda today everything is
moving along rather nicely all of our
okay ours are on track to be taking care
of Portia isn't here to talk about some
of the EFS kind of stuff but why don't
we get a quick update on fertile school
from you Terry and there sure so we have
a new request in for a chapter in
Bangalore so I need to get a repo set up
for that I don't think we've had new
chapters go live this week though we
have folks in a number of places working
on setting them up and there's a new
Berlin Nita coming up in early March I
think that Portia is hosting the newest
thing that went live this week in terms
of proto school is if you go in the
organizing repo now which is that for
our chapter organizers instead of just
having chapter set of instructions
there's also a resources document which
is meant for all the stuff you might
need after you've set up your chapter so
things tips for setting up events how to
order stickers etc
yes but not not too much I was at FOSDEM
this weekend and gave a little lightning
talk I'm sharing the sharing the the
proto school idea with some folks there
who were interested in my PFS hopefully
that will generate some more chapter
organizers and then next up on my list
as I realize I say frequently I'm
working on building out a lesson to
teach the ipfs file API
I think that's the summary in my end
very cool very cool um over last weekend
I did a little side project with Jess
ipfs pushing around some files and it
was really kind of enlightening there's
a lot of sort of rough edges that we
need to sand down so I have on my to-do
list to do a very long write-up of what
that experience was like and sort of the
takeaways from it
yeah that's just the main kind of update
that I have other than that I'm just
doing more and more metrics work looking
at all of our sort of org level metrics
and then trying to figure out a way to
do metrics analysis over all of github
archive data cool all right at this
point I guess we can just open it up um
sort of like a office hours so Dan Jim
you got anything you want to ask us or
bring up discuss sure I might throw in
something so I just officially got an IP
FS meetup started up here through you
guys which is awesome and some swag
which I'm very excited to be able to
pass around here at the upcoming event
that I've been grinding on which is
aetherium Denver and I saw I'll be
announcing at least one ipfs related
meetup in the build-up to that event and
I'll be definitely up doing some
promotion there so I'm really excited to
see if we can get some people thinking
about distributed systems more than just
blockchain tech in general so that's
that's pretty exciting so far there's
definitely some interest from outside of
the the normal communities that I run in
the blockchain circles around here which
is great so and I'm waiting on protocol
stickers that'll be awesome and then I
guess in terms of an event maybe that's
what I can get your guys's input on is
how can I best highlight produce cool
more than just like I guess what I did
last time is effectively on office hours
for proto school it could be something
as simple as that to introduce people to
some of the ipfs tooling but something
around
maybe if you're going to a hackathon
specifically for something around
aetherium with other good tools in which
we could point them to that would be
really useful to have in your tool belt
this interesting question I think that
like what we sort of envisioned was it
eventually the personal materials would
get to a place where you would you would
want to do is sort of a more structured
tutorial following through the material
with that with that particular audience
though people that are like already
doing a theory on blockchain stuff
I don't know how interested they'll be
in a full browser tutorial so you may
just want to sort of point them at like
oh here are the resources to poke at but
I'm not sure maybe they would be
interested in just walking through the
whole sort of all work well I think that
once we have the file one up to like
that'll be a big change because at the
end of the file tutorial you will like
have uploaded a new file and you can
kind of see how a browser you can create
an application with a file but then that
file CID is now just available in the
decentralized network and so if you want
to do transactions I can sit in your
aetherium blockchain like you can
actually just pull that out of ipfs like
in Jeff ipfs or in go ipfs or wherever
like in fact you could probably just
pull it out by CID if you had other
resolution mechanisms so I think like
that that is probably like some main
thing you'll want to point about once we
have it ready which is you know it's in
progress right now it should be done
yeah do we have a rough ETA on when I
might be able to get that out and issued
for the file API remind me when your
Aventis so all next week we've got all
kinds of things going on so but by next
weekend is when I'd like to be able to
host at least one event around proto
school or at least is point to some good
tutorials for an IP FS in general yeah
so the footer file
API tutorial won't be ready for that but
the tutorials that will exist are the
ones that you see there today so whether
it's sure whether you think that's
appropriate for that audience if it's
different from the folks who came to
your last event and they want to work
through that or if you want to just
introduce the concept of proto school I
think my my slide deck from just
introducing what protocol is and
inviting people I don't know if you have
many people from outside of Denver that
come where it would actually build
chapters and other places I think
there's a folder called presentations in
the organizing repo that has the - that
but no that's great yeah I can pick up
from there and you're right maybe the
idea is receding some other communities
because we will have a global audience
here for sure so yeah I'll plan on that
and I'll report back not next week but
the week after so so then like what is
sort of the makeup of the audience are
they like fairly new to blockchain stuff
are they actually like already doing
some stuff in the serial it really
depends so last year was the first and
biggest event like in the space the
whole aetherium hackathon thing here we
had like 700 people and I think that the
demographic was 60 to 70% had never
written a line of solidity in their life
so they might have had some other
experience but almost no one had any
real-life yeoreum dev under their belt
so this year my guess is that that's
going to be maybe inverted there are a
lot more once people in general we're
really trying to cater also to
non-technical people as well but out of
that technical demographic absolutely I
think a lot of people and in the
etherium circles that I talk with its
they're talking about ipfs for doing
file storage distributed ly or
potentially integrating with swarm but
that's kind of a toss-up right now I
tend to favor that I have what we're up
to
yeah and last time I lost I don't know
where they're at in the development but
I think swarm may end up using the ideas
like the spec for their own in
turtle data stuff as well so that'll be
really really Christ it'll be some nice
parity there nice yeah um okay so I mean
I'm just sort of googling around for
existing like solidity yeah here we go
so there are a couple different
tutorials just online of like using
solidity with ipfs um you know and it's
always just like oh yeah you know you
give it the ipfs hash you get the idea
that - right um so yeah i mean um i
think probably just like we we just need
to there's some pretty easy based
documentation for both CS IPSS and
regular ipfs on here's how you add a
file and then get that hash out of it I
think that's probably like the missing
component in some of these tutorials
that are already there
so yeah I mean I know that just the the
actual jeaious ipfs api documentation
for files has been updated and so it's
actually quite a bit better than it was
before
there's a really good distinction there
between em FS and the regular file API
in particular um yeah let me um you look
something up real quick okay maybe it
would be best if you wouldn't mind
dropping that in the notes for today and
I can go back and review some of that
sure um yeah here's the general idea
that doc to when we find that link thank
oh no that's not the link sorry I need
to go into the calendar then to find the
link well love it when I talk out loud
and on calls okay yeah well we'll put
some different documentation links in
there um I think like this is an
interesting use case though I would like
to afterwards I'm curious to know what
the knowledge gaps were and what people
had a hard time kind of understanding so
that we can maybe create better
documentation that is specifically
targeted at aetherium users and just say
like you know here is exactly you know
the things that you were going to
about and need to learn in order to use
idea that's what area right all right
and to be honest I haven't done much
digging myself but my guest notionally I
don't know if you're familiar with
truffle boxes but something along those
lines it's a plug-and-play it just has a
template for a really good use case all
outlined for ipfs integration okay I
can't open the nest notes for some
reason I'll put the link in the chat and
don't play somebody who can get the
notes up and can do that I don't know
why it's not opening on my yeah so the
doctor said ipfs that IO is sort of
great a high-level documentation just
about what IP FS is and then depending
on if they're looking at the JavaScript
side of the go side there are difference
or the API pointers that we can do okay
it's all dig into that here shortly and
get something up on the calendar in in
terms of broadcasting and getting people
more so stoked about the community at
large in general proto school is
definitely a place to point them but is
there anything else like the high p FS
community repo for instance okay yeah
and in fact we in there I think we even
have a thread somewhere about building
couple boxes for all right well thanks
guys I really appreciate the help all
right Jim anything today
not a whole lot I'm just sort of
thinking forward to trying to figure out
how to build some better onboarding
stuff for peer base I've also been
working on driving the bugs out of it
and it's it's coming along it's actually
getting pretty stable so I know the the
existing read B material and examples
are really quite terrible for learning
it so I'm thinking of what would simpler
simpler examples and onboarding look
like I'm sort of thinking maybe like a
home automation type example might be
sort of the colon to start with for a
beginner
it's like imagine one flip on lights on
and off in your house from multiple
devices and you know so a Qi experiment
I might be able to stick the stuff in
something like a react react native app
with Expo IO or something and that might
be really cool way of showing I think
that this stuff really shines up
multiple devices for collaboration for
like especially for like a you know very
somebody's very first intro to like why
would you want to use a CR DT conflict
we replicated data type is primarily for
syncing between devices and multiple
users of course you know if you're doing
a tutorial you don't have multiple users
to interact with I'd sort of I find that
it's like a it's it's hard to do
collaboration tutorial where you have to
imagine that you're collaborating with
you know another version of yourself or
something like I've been playing around
with some HTML game frameworks as well
so that might be sort of fun to do like
here's how you make a multi-user game
but again you still have that same
problem where you know it's well only
one person doing the tutorial so it's
hard to make a multi-user game when
you're the only one person but yeah
we've thought a couple times about like
what what we could do in terms of um in
this tutorial then doing some kind of
pop out where it would open another tab
and then that others have would also be
doing something to show like maybe file
transfer or to show possibly like
collaboration but again like with with
the COTC stuff it's like you only really
see the value when you have two people
editing at exactly the same time it has
to be at the same time and so if you're
flipping between the tabs it's not
really at the same time yeah one idea I
had was like you could I could like code
up some like a bot this sort of sits
there and acts as one side of the
conversation and then you can cut the
other side of the but in which case the
game thing might actually make
to make a lot of sense rate like code up
a bot on your end or or just code up an
interface where you can like interface
do something as part of an existing sort
of like a game so a lot of like the
early data and even some of the early
web foreign stuff they had some really
cool demos around chat if I recall maybe
that was just web torrent though in
Pharaoh's but there yeah there was some
really really cool cat demos that were
happening with all the new real time
stuff and they seem to be pretty popular
people really into them so yeah I built
a chat version with the thing project I
did last year called hyper in terms of
based on the CR DT Department Chad is
it's not really very C R DT like it's
not really a whole lot of merging in
chat it's just sort of like each person
is typing their own stream and you log
of messages you just sort of merge them
together in time so it's not like a lot
of conflicts that consider happily he
not really you just sort of appending
messages to a log so it's it's great in
though
like adding features on I think it's
nice yeah like I feel like what a lot of
the I mean this has come up quite a bit
actually and decentralized web talking
in general which is like you know what
do you do about moderation what do you
do about delete stuff like that I think
like a demo that showed how you would do
collaborative moderation with be
centralized data structures be cool and
powerful yeah yeah there's a lot like
there's a lot of like sort of math you
sort of concepts involved it's like you
know like C or D keys are built on this
idea a partial order and then you only
see the full order everything when
everybody synced up and merged together
and I think that stuff's really
interesting but it's probably not what
you want to throw a drop on somebody
like right at the beginning I think
there's you know there's there's like
converging a bunch of data together and
then this the idea like building
consensus met things on top which is
Marvel octane type of
so there's a lot of like concepts to
drop on somebody right great at first so
I that's why I sort of the the one that
seemed excited came to mind is just like
the home automation when it's like hey
can I turn the light bulb on in my
living room yeah that's like that's sort
of like where where you're modifying a
state and it's like you know on or off
that's really easy to understand
i I'm not doing much on it right now so
it's going to be in the upcoming weeks
in there and then if I do this I I
probably did standalone and then try to
just parts of it with an eye that like
maybe somebody could work into the to
put a school curriculum at some point
but yeah okay cool um I didn't do there
please carry anything else before we
wrap up not that occurs to me well I'm
unmute is either one thing is that um so
we we have a community hack week next
week with me and Portia and Terry and I
think one thing we're gonna poke at is
possibly moving to view press from just
a regular if you have to view press that
so then if you're watching the code in
in the protocol repo that'll be kind of
fun to watch
very cool well I was gonna say I really
like that idea if we can make it static
and host the whole site on ipfs that
would be awesome
yep yep technically we're currently
static and we can host it on ipfs that's
all possible now but we but just that
the URLs don't matter right now
like this yeah like they all hit the
same resource and so just for like you
know Google ability and right well a
little bit of both maybe
but but I think mainly like if you look
at the way that you press works it's
sort of inverted from our current
workflow where like we have these
markdown files that then get imported
into components of like a view component
and then output it into a page and
that's kind of like annoying as an
author where most of what you're doing
is markdown and then you're embedding a
few pieces basically so yeah if you
press would just allow us to really like
make these components and then embed
them into the markdown so it's like
inverted be a lot nicer I think and it
would be a lot easier to like
dynamically build some of the lists that
we have which right now we actually have
to like manually update the list of
tutorial I mean that's more that we
haven't built the component yet as far
as I can tell but well there isn't a
great way though in a component to pull
in a list from the file system of like
the open files from what I've seen
because if you do it in client-side
JavaScript like the file system doesn't
technically exist and so you you would
have to do it some kind of a build step
and then pass it through whereas like in
View press every template or every
component can just get a list of all of
the files that are in the current
application that's like that space we've
baked in so yeah that would just be like
a lot here cool okay awesome revved up
good tag everybody have a nice weekend
and yes till next week
[Music]